# Polynomial Guessing
## What does this program do
This program takes input points of the form (x,y) from a file, and then predicts the closest polynomial that can be represented by these points. This polynomial is printed in Output.txt generated by the program. Further there is an option to plot the input points against the estimated polynomial to see how close the guess was.  

## What is the algorithm
The algorithm used here is very simple, I first defined a loss function that calculates the error. Then I used gradient descent that is calculated the derivative of the loss function at the point of error and subtract it from weights to get new weights. This algorithm has been mathematically proven to converge (since the error always decreases).  

## How to run this program
First you need to have input data file in the Data directory having two columns. The first column should have values of x and the second one has values of y. Each row corresponds to one data point. Also the first row should contain the line "x y".  
Let this file be named input_file.txt and should be saved in Data folder only  
Now go to the directory named Polynomial_Guessing and type in the terminal :   
`python polynomial.py -df input_file.txt`  
This will run the model with default values, to run your own loss function you can give an optional argument -lf. you can also plot your points against the estimated polynomial using `--plot` or `pl` if you want any help on how to run this file you can always type the following for help :  
`python polynomial.py -h`  
This will print the following data:   
```
-h, --help            show this help message and exit
-lf, --loss_function
                      Enter the loss function for gradient 1: Mean Square, 2: Mean Absolute, 3: Mean Root, 4: Cross Entropy, 5: Log-Cosh
-df, --data_file      Enter the address of the data file to be used
-pl, --plot           If you want to plot the polynomial against points
```

### Happy Guessing!!